## Calling Ayt_Builder on ENTERPRISE

		ld ix,AYT_File		; Address of the AYT file
		ld de,AYT_Player	; Address where the player will be generated
        ld a,2			; Number of loops for the music
		call AYT_Builder	; Build the player at DE for file pointed by IX for "A" loop

To play the music, the *player* must be called at the correct frequency.  
Most tracks require the *player* to be called periodically, typically 50 times per second.  

It is very **important to ensure that no interrupt occurs during the player call**.  
If you are not familiar with the Z80A interrupt system, you can use the **DI** instruction before calling the *player*.

		call AYT_Player	; Execute the player to play the music

### Compilation Option
#### PlayerAccessByJP

If the **PlayerAccessByJP** option is set to 1, you must also provide the return address for the *player*.

		ld ix,AYT_File		; Address of the AYT file
		ld de,AYT_Player	; Address where the player will be generated
		ld hl,AYT_Player_Ret	; Address where the player returns
		ld a,2			; Number of times the music should play
		call Ayt_Builder

The return address is placed immediately after the *player* call:

			jp AYT_Player	; Execute the player
	AYT_Player_Ret			; Player return address

#### PlayerStereo
The Enterprise has 3 tone channels and 1 noise channel. 
Each of these channels has 2 amplitude registers (8 in total), allowing independent volume control for left and right speakers. 
Internally, the machine has one built-in speaker. Stereo sound is possible with external speakers. 
Music from the YM-2149 or AY-3-8912 is considered mono; therefore, unless the music is capable of handling two speakers, 
the player will only send the volume to one speaker. However, it is possible to force both speakers to be sent by setting this option to 1. 
In this case, the player will consume a maximum of 4 x 11 = 44 TS additional resources.

## Initialization
If the compressor detects *inactive* registers, they are excluded from the **AYT** data but still require prior initialization.

An initialization function must be called before the player.

The *Ayt_Builder* function constructs an initialization routine that must be called **before** using the *player*.  

After calling *Ayt_Builder*:
- **HL** contains the address of the init routine 
- **DE** points to the first free byte after the *player* (or after the init routine)

To call an initialization routine, use:

		ld ix,AYT_File		; Address of the AYT file
		ld de,AYT_Player	; Address where the player will be generated
        ld a,2			; Number of loops for the music
		call AYT_Builder	; Build the player at DE for file pointed by IX for "A" loop

		ld (InitPlayer),hl	; Update the init routine
		...
		...
	InitPlayer equ $+1
		call 0			; After update, CALL points to the init routine

## Player Call Frequency
The *player* is usually called in sync with the screen refresh rate.  

Pour tester la Vsync à partir du processeur vidéo, il est nécessaire de définir un signal d'interruption dans le LPB (Line parameter Block) de la LPT (Line Parameter Table) qui définit la structure du frame.
Je ne vais pas rentrer dans le détail de la structuration d'un LPT, car ça dépasse le cadre de ce document.
Il faut cependant retenir qu'une interruption peut être générée par le processeur vidéo (via le LPB d'une ligne, par exemple la VSYNC) et est traité via un registre du processeur sonore (qui centralise la gestion des interruptions). 
Dans l'exemple ci-desssous, "intvect" est appelé à partir de #38 (mode IM 1) 

To test Vsync from the video processor, it's necessary to define an interrupt signal in the LPB (Line Parameter Block) of the LPT (Line Parameter Table), which defines the video frame structure.

I won't go into the details of LPT structure, as it's beyond the scope of this document.

However, it's important to remember that an interrupt can be generated by the video processor (via the LPB of a line, for example, VSYNC) and is handled via a register in the sound processor (which centralizes interrupt management).

In the example below, "intvect" is called starting at #38 (IM 1 mode).

intvect
		if PlayerAccessByJPBuilder
			jp AYT_Player		; jump to the player			
AYT_Player_Ret		ld sp,0			; address return of the player
	        else
			call AYT_Player		; call player
   		endif
		ld a,#30			; Acq INT 1 (Nick Int) via DAVE register
		out (#b4),a
		ei			
		ret

Note that if several interrupts are generated via the video processor, the others must be filtered out so that only one is processed during the frame.


## Pre-Building the Player
It is entirely possible to ***pre-build*** the *player*.

Use *Ayt_Builder* to generate the *player* and initialize the **AYT** file in advance.  
Simply save the generated player and the updated **AYT** file after the function call.

You can then integrate both at the predefined addresses used during the *Ayt_Builder* call.

## Performance

Execution time and memory usage of the *player* depend on several factors:
- Number of active registers detected by the compressor (up to 14)
- *Calling method* (**CALL** or **JP**) across all platforms

The *calling method* defines how the *player* is invoked in Z80A.  
It is a compilation option for the *builder*:
- **CALL**: use Z80A **CALL** instruction
- **JP**: use Z80A **JP** instruction  
  - The *player* does not save **SP**, saving **11 NOPs** (CPC) or **37 T-states**  
  - Useful only if the caller modifies **SP**  
  - Otherwise:
    - The *builder* must be called each time the return address changes
      - Common during development, requiring builder in RAM
      - Or if the *player* is called from multiple locations
    - Stack pointer must be restored; any push or call corrupts **AYT** data

Performance table for 10–07 active registers and both calling methods:

| Calling Method | Active Registers | CPU (T-states) | Player Size | Builder Size |
| :-----------: | :--------------: | :------------: | :---------: | :-----------: |
| JP            | 10               | 574            | 106         | 294           |
| JP            | 09               | 535            | 101         | 294           |    
| JP            | 08               | 496            | 96          | 294           |        
| JP            | 07               | 457            | 91          | 294           |        
| CALL          | 10               | 611            | 111         | 309           |
| CALL          | 09               | 572            | 106         | 309           |
| CALL          | 08               | 533            | 101         | 309           |
| CALL          | 07               | 494            | 96          | 309           |

CPU : Add 44 Ts if Stereo Option is active (Max:4 volume (11x4))
SIZE: Add 8 bytes if Stereo Option is active (Max:4 volume (2x4))

